A common mistake I see freelancers make and one I've actually made
myself is taking on an employee mindset into freelancing.
Sometimes I get questions like,
do I need a degree to freelance as a blank.
I am 18, am I too young or I'm 60 am I too
old or how many years experience do I need to start freelancing?
To me, all these questions come from the mindset of an employee as when you apply for,
let's say a regular job,
employers might be very particular about your qualifications or years of experience.
However, in the freelance world,
there are virtually no rules.
Essentially, it all comes down to whether you can convince a particular person,
usually just one decision-maker at the company,
that you can provide the results that they're looking for.
Now, I'm not saying that experience and qualifications don't
count and should be ignored but at the end of the day,
the client just wants to trust that you'll do a good job for them.
If you're a 15-year-old high school dropout with zero experience,
but can somehow convince a client that they can
trust you to do a great job on a particular project,
then kudos to you.
Obviously that's impede of an extreme example but what I'm getting at
here is that the client is not paying you for your degree or years of experience.
What they are paying you for is a certain experience and certain result.
They are more concerned about things like,
can I trust this freelancer?
Will I like working with them?
Can he or she get the project done within budget?
Will they produce a high quality result?
These are the real questions that you should answer,
whether it be in your profile or in your proposal. Now, don't get me wrong.
There are, of course, some clients on Upwork who may
evaluate you based on your experience and qualifications,
but don't let that deter you if you're lacking in either of those two things.
The key here is to think of yourself as a business, not an employee.
What do I mean by that?
Well, if you head to the website of any successful agency,
let's say you do web development,
you would head over to the website of any of
these successful firms and have a look at how they market themselves.
Does their front-page read like a resume?
Do they talk about their list of skills and years of experience?
Maybe they do, but I'm sure what you'll find is
that there is a clear focus on the result that they can deliver to
their clients and a portfolio that
demonstrates that they have done so for clients in the past.
That is the mindset I want you to take into designing
your Upwork profile and writing proposals to clients.
Stop getting hung up on how many years of experience you have,
or a matter of college qualifications you
have and focus on how you can communicate trust,
quality, and reliability to your prospective clients.